# OOP and Func approaches

## OOP
- using objects to model data and functions
- can be folded inside another objects

4 main OOP principles: encapsulation, inheritance, abstraction, polymorphism

#### Abstraction
Creating a simple model of a more complex thing. This model "shows" only essential attributes and "hides" unnecessary information. 

#### Inheritance
Subclass may inherit data from parent class.

#### Polymorphism
Ability to implement same functionality in multiple objects.

#### Encapsulation
Bundling data and its methods into a single unit.


## FP
https://medium.com/javascript-scene/master-the-javascript-interview-what-is-functional-programming-7f218c68b3a0


Functional programming (often abbreviated FP) is the process of building software by composing pure functions, avoiding shared state, mutable data, and side-effects. Functional programming is declarative rather than imperative, and application state flows through pure functions. Contrast with object oriented programming, where application state is usually shared and colocated with methods in objects.


- Pure functions
- Function composition
- Avoid shared state
- Avoid mutating state
- Avoid side effects

#### Pure function
- Given the same inputs, always returns the same output, and
- Has no side-effects

#### Function composition
The process of combining two or more functions in order to produce a new function
```javascript
f(g(x))
```

#### Shared State
Shared state is any variable, object, or memory space that exists in a shared scope, or as the property of an object being passed between scopes. A shared scope can include global scope or closure scopes. Often, in object oriented programming, objects are shared between scopes by adding properties to other objects.

#### Immutability
Immutable object is an object that can’t be modified after it’s created

Immutable objects can’t be changed at all. You can make a value truly immutable by deep freezing the object. JavaScript has a method that freezes an object one-level deep:

```javascript
const a = Object.freeze({
  foo: 'Hello',
  bar: 'world',
  baz: '!'
});

a.foo = 'Goodbye';
// Error: Cannot assign to read only property 'foo' of object Object
```

#### Reusability Through Higher Order Functions
A higher order function is any function which takes a function as an argument, returns a function, or both. 

**Higher order functions** are often used to:
- Abstract or isolate actions, effects, or async flow control using callback functions, promises, monads, etc…
- Create utilities which can act on a wide variety of data types
- Partially apply a function to its arguments or create a curried function for the purpose of reuse or function composition
- Take a list of functions and return some composition of those input functions

#### Declarative vs Imperative
Functional programming is a declarative paradigm, meaning that the program logic is expressed without explicitly describing the flow control.

**Imperative** programs spend lines of code describing the specific steps used to achieve the desired results — the flow control: How to do things.

**Declarative** programs abstract the flow control process, and instead spend lines of code describing the data flow: What to do. The how gets abstracted away.



